.\"
.\"                           TERMS AND CONDITIONS
.\"                                   FOR
.\"                         OPEN SOURCE CODE LICENSE
.\"                               Version 1.1
.\" 
.\" Japan Registry Services Co., Ltd. ("JPRS"), a Japanese corporation
.\" having its head office at Chiyoda First Bldg. East 13F 3-8-1 Nishi-Kanda,
.\" Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0065, Japan, grants you the license for open source
.\" code specified in EXHIBIT A the "Code" subject to the following Terms and
.\" Conditions ("OSCL").
.\" 
.\" 1. License Grant.
.\"   JPRS hereby grants you a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive
.\"   license, subject to third party intellectual property claims:
.\"   (a) under intellectual property rights (other than patent or
.\"       trademark) licensable by JPRS to use, reproduce, modify, display,
.\"       perform, sublicense and distribute the Code (or portions thereof)
.\"       with or without modifications, and/or as part of a derivative work;
.\"       or
.\"   (b) under claims of the infringement through the making, using,
.\"       offering to sell and/or otherwise disposing the JPRS Revised Code
.\"       (or portions thereof);
.\"   (c) the licenses granted in this Section 1(a) and (b) are effective on
.\"       the date JPRS first distributes the Code to you under the terms of
.\"       this OSCL;
.\"   (d) Notwithstanding the above stated terms, no patent license is
.\"       granted:
.\"       1)  for a code that you delete from the Code;
.\"       2)  separate from the Code; or
.\"       3)  for infringements caused by:
.\"            i) modification of the Code; or
.\"           ii) combination of the Code with other software or devices.
.\" 
.\" 2. Consents.
.\"   You agree that:
.\"   (a) you must include a copy of this OSCL and the notice set forth in
.\"       EXHIBIT A with every copy of the Code you distribute;
.\"   (b) you must include a copy of this OSCL and the notice set forth in
.\"       EXHIBIT A with every copy of binary form of the Code in the
.\"       documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution;
.\"   (c) you may not offer or impose any terms on any source code version
.\"       that alters or restricts the applicable version of this OSCL or
.\"       the recipients' rights hereunder.
.\"   (d) If the terms and conditions are set forth in EXHIBIT A, you must
.\"       comply with those terms and conditions.
.\" 
.\" 3. Proprietary Information.
.\"   All trademarks, service marks, patents, copyrights, trade secrets, and
.\"   other proprietary rights in or related to the Code are and will remain
.\"   the exclusive property of JPRS or its licensors, whether or not
.\"   specifically recognized or perfected under local law except specified
.\"   in this OSCL; provided however you agree and understand that the JPRS
.\"   name may not be used to endorse or promote this Code without prior
.\"   written approval of JPRS.
.\" 
.\" 4. WARRANTY DISCLAIMER.
.\"   JPRS MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES REGARDING THE USE OF THE
.\"   CODE, NOR DOES JPRS MAKE ANY REPRESENTATIONS THAT THE CODE WILL BECOME
.\"   COMMERCIALLY AVAILABLE. JPRS, ITS AFFILIATES, AND ITS SUPPLIERS DO NOT
.\"   WARRANT OR REPRESENT THAT THE CODE IS FREE OF ERRORS OR THAT THE CODE
.\"   IS SUITABLE FOR TRANSLATION AND/OR LOCALIZATION. THE CODE IS PROVIDED
.\"   ON AN "AS IS" BASIS AND JPRS AND ITS SUPPLIERS HAVE NO OBLIGATION TO
.\"   CORRECT ERRORS OR TO SUPPORT THE CODE UNDER THIS OSCL FOR ANY REASON.
.\"   TO THE FULL EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, ALL OBLIGATIONS ARE HEREBY
.\"   EXCLUDED WHETHER EXPRESS, STATUTORY OR IMPLIED UNDER LAW, COURSE OF
.\"   DEALING, CUSTOM, TRADE USAGE, ORAL OR WRITTEN STATEMENT OR OTHERWISE,
.\"   INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\"   OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE CONCERNING THE CODE.
.\" 
.\" 5. NO LIABILITY.
.\"   UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL JPRS AND/OR ITS AFFILIATES, LICENSORS, OR
.\"   REPRESENTATIVES BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
.\"   CONSEQUENTIAL, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES,
.\"   WHETHER FORESEEABLE OR UNFORESEEABLE, BASED ON YOUR CLAIMS, INCLUDING,
.\"   BUT NOT LIMITED TO, CLAIMS FOR LOSS OF DATA, GOODWILL, PROFITS, USE OF
.\"   MONEY, INTERRUPTION IN USE OR AVAILABILITY OF DATA, STOPPAGE, IMPLIED
.\"   WARRANTY, BREACH OF CONTRACT, MISREPRESENTATION, NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
.\"   LIABILITY IN TORT, OR OTHERWISE.
.\" 
.\" 6. Indemnification.
.\"   You hereby agree to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless JPRS for any
.\"   liability incurred by JRPS due to your terms of warranty, support,
.\"   indemnity, or liability offered by you to any third party.
.\" 
.\" 7. Termination.
.\" 7.1 This OSCL shall be automatically terminated in the events that:
.\"   (a) You fail to comply with the terms herein and fail to cure such
.\"       breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach;
.\"   (b) You initiate patent or copyright infringement litigation against
.\"       any party (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit)
.\"       alleging that the Code constitutes a direct or indirect patent or
.\"       copyright infringement, in such case, this OSCL to you shall
.\"       terminate as of the date such litigation is filed;
.\" 7.2 In the event of termination under Sections 7.1(a) or 7.1(b) above,
.\"     all end user license agreements (excluding distributors and
.\"     resellers) which have been validly granted by You or any distributor
.\"     hereunder prior to termination shall survive termination.
.\"
.\" 
.\" 8. General.
.\"   This OSCL shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in
.\"   accordance with, the laws of Japan. Any litigation or arbitration
.\"   between the parties shall be conducted exclusively in Tokyo, Japan
.\"   except written consent of JPRS provides other venue.
.\" 
.\" 
.\"                                EXHIBIT A
.\" 
.\" The original open source code of idnkit-2 is idnkit-1.0 developed and
.\" conceived by Japan Network Information Center ("JPNIC"), a Japanese
.\" association, Kokusai-Kougyou-Kanda Bldg 6F, 2-3-4 Uchi-Kanda,
.\" Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0047, Japan, and JPRS modifies above original code
.\" under following Terms and Conditions set forth by JPNIC.
.\" 
.\"                                  JPNIC
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2002 Japan Network Information Center.  All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" By using this file, you agree to the terms and conditions set forth bellow.
.\" 
.\"                       LICENSE TERMS AND CONDITIONS
.\" 
.\" The following License Terms and Conditions apply, unless a different
.\" license is obtained from Japan Network Information Center ("JPNIC"),
.\" a Japanese association, Kokusai-Kougyou-Kanda Bldg 6F, 2-3-4 Uchi-Kanda,
.\" Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0047, Japan.
.\" 
.\" 1. Use, Modification and Redistribution (including distribution of any
.\"    modified or derived work) in source and/or binary forms is permitted
.\"    under this License Terms and Conditions.
.\" 
.\" 2. Redistribution of source code must retain the copyright notices as they
.\"    appear in each source code file, this License Terms and Conditions.
.\" 
.\" 3. Redistribution in binary form must reproduce the Copyright Notice,
.\"    this License Terms and Conditions, in the documentation and/or other
.\"    materials provided with the distribution. For the purposes of binary
.\"    distribution the "Copyright Notice" refers to the following language:
.\"    "Copyright (c) 2000-2002 Japan Network Information Center.  All rights reserved."
.\" 
.\" 4. The name of JPNIC may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this Software without specific prior written approval of
.\"    JPNIC.
.\" 
.\" 5. Disclaimer/Limitation of Liability: THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JPNIC
.\"    "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\"    LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
.\"    PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL JPNIC BE LIABLE
.\"    FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\"    CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\"    SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\"    BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\"    WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
.\"    OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
.\"    ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
.\" 
.\" 
.\"                        JPRS Public License Notice
.\"                                   For
.\"                                idnkit-2.
.\" 
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the Terms and Conditions for
.\" the Open Source Code License (the "OSCL"). You may not use this file
.\" except in compliance with above terms and conditions. A copy of the OSCL
.\" is available at <http://jprs.co.jp/idn/>.
.\" The JPRS Revised Code is idnkit-2.
.\" The Initial Developer of the JPRS Revised Code is Japan Network
.\" Information Center ("JPNIC"), a Japanese association,
.\" Kokusai-Kougyou-Kanda Bldg 6F, 2-3-4 Uchi-Kanda, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo
.\" 101-0047, Japan.
.\" "Copyright (c) 2000-2002 Japan Network Information Center.  All rights reserved."
.\" "Copyright (c) 2010-2012 Japan Registry Services Co., Ltd.  All rights reserved."
.\" Contributor(s): ______________________________________.
.\" 
.\" If you wish to allow use of your version of this file only under the
.\" above License(s) and not to allow others to use your version of this
.\" file, please indicate your decision by deleting the relevant provisions
.\" above and replacing them with the notice and other provisions required
.\" by the above License(s). If you do not delete the relevant provisions,
.\" a recipient may use your version of this file under either the above
.\" License(s).
.\"
.TH idn_decodename 3 "Sep 21, 2012"
.\"
.SH NAME
idn_decodename, idn_decodename2 \- decode an internationalized domain name
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <idn/api.h>

idn_result_t
\fBidn_decodename\fP(idn_action_t\ actions,\ const\ char\ *from,\ char\ *to,
    size_t\ tolen);

idn_result_t
\fBidn_decodename2\fP(idn_action_t\ actions,\ const\ char\ *from,\ char\ *to,
    size_t\ tolen,\ const\ char\ *auxencoding);

.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The function \fBidn_decodename()\fR decodes a domain name \fIfrom\fR and
writes the result on \fIto\fR, at most \fItolen\fR bytes.
Note that \fIfrom\fR must be terminated by NUL, and \fItolen\fR includes
room for a NUL character.
.PP
The argument \fIactions\fR specifies which steps in the entire decoding
process should be performed. The following list shows action names
corresponding with steps of the decoding process. The function 
performs the steps in that order.
.RS 4
.IP "1. IDN_UNICODECONV"
Convert a domain name from local decoding (e.g. ISO-8859-1) to UTF-8.
.IP "2. IDN_MAP"
Perform mappings (NFC, Lowercase conversion, etc.).
.IP "3. IDN_ASCLOWER"
Convert ASCII uppercase letters (A..Z) to lowercase (a..z).
.IP "4. IDN_IDNCONV"
Convert A-labels to U-labels.
.IP "5. IDN_PROHCHECK"
Check prohibited code points.
.IP "6. IDN_UNASCHECK"
Check unassigned code points.
.IP "7. IDN_NFCCHECK"
Check labels are in NFC.
.IP "8. IDN_PREFCHECK"
Check labels containing "--" in the 3rd and 4th characters.
.IP "9. IDN_HYPHCHECK"
Check labels beginning/ending with "-".
.IP "10. IDN_COMBCHECK"
Check labels beginning with a combining mark.
.IP "11. IDN_CTXJCHECK"
Check CONTEXTJ code points.
.IP "12a. IDN_CTXOCHECK"
Check CONTEXTO code points for the registration protocol.
.IP "12b. IDN_CTXOLITECHECK"
Check CONTEXTO code points for the lookup protocol.
.IP "13. IDN_BIDICHECK"
Check requirements specified in [IDNA2008-BIDI].
.IP "14. IDN_LOCALCHECK"
Perform local check (optional).
.IP "15. IDN_RTCHECK"
Perform round trip check for each label.
.IP "16. IDN_LOCALCONV"
Convert a domain name from UTF-8 to local encoding (e.g. ISO-8859-1).
.RE
.PP
Between the step 2 and 3, the domain name is split into labels.
The step 3 through 15 are applied to each label. After the step 15,
labels are joined with a separator ``.''.
.PP
A value of bitwise-OR of some actions can be specified, like:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
.ft CW
r = idn_decodename(IDN_IDNCONV | IDN_LOCALCONV, from, to, tolen);
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.PP
The function \fBidn_decodename2()\fR works same as \fBidn_decodename()\fR,
but an encoding conversion from \fIauxencoding\fR to UTF-8 is performed
prior to the actual decoding process.
Instead, \fBidn_decodename2()\fR ignores IDN_UNICODECONV action.
If \fIauxencoding\fR is NULL, \fIfrom\fR is treated as UTF-8.
.PP
Also the following actions are provided for convenience:
.RS 4
.IP "IDN_DECODE_REGIST"
Decode a domain name with IDNA2008 registration protocol.
libidnkit performs the step 1..11, 12a, 13, 15 and 16.
libidnkitlite performs the step 2..11, 12a, 13 and 15.
.IP "IDN_DECODE_LOOKUP"
Decode a domain name with IDNA2008 lookup protocol.
libidnkit performs the step 1..8, 10, 11, 12b, 13, 15 and 16.
libidnkitlite performs the step 2..8, 10, 11, 12b, 13 and 15.
.RE
.PP
Upon success, the functions returns \fBidn_success\fR.
Otherwise, it returns an error code.
See idn_result_tostring(3) for the complete list of error codes.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLE
To decode an internationalized domain name returned from a resolver
function, use \fBidn_decodename()\fR.
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
.ft CW
idn_result_t r;
char ace_name[256];
struct hostent *hp;

\&...
hp = gethostbyname(name);
r = idn_decodename(IDN_DECODE_LOOKUP, hp->h_name, local_name,
                   sizeof(local_name));
if (r != idn_success) {
    fprintf(stderr, "idn_decodename failed: %s\en",
            idn_result_tostring(r));
    exit(1);
}
printf("name: %s\en", local_name);
\&...
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
idnconv(1),
libidnkit(3),
idn_nameinit(3),
idn_result_tostring(3),
idn2.conf(5)
